


PostgreSQL: Documentation: 15: 53.28. pg_init_privs
































Home
About
Download
Documentation
Community
Developers
Support
Donate
Your account

















9th February 2023: 
  PostgreSQL 15.2, 14.7, 13.10, 12.14, and 11.19 Released!












Documentation → PostgreSQL 15





                    Supported Versions:
                      
                        
                        
                          Current
                          (15)
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          14
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          13
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          12
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          11




                    Development Versions:
                    
                      
                      devel




                    Unsupported versions:
                    
                      
                      10
                    
                       / 
                      9.6



















53.28. pg_init_privs


Prev 
Up
Chapter 53. System Catalogs
Home
 Next








53.28. pg_init_privs



The catalog pg_init_privs records information about the initial privileges of objects in the system. There is one entry for each object in the database which has a non-default (non-NULL) initial set of privileges.
Objects can have initial privileges either by having those privileges set when the system is initialized (by initdb) or when the object is created during a CREATE EXTENSION and the extension script sets initial privileges using the GRANT system. Note that the system will automatically handle recording of the privileges during the extension script and that extension authors need only use the GRANT and REVOKE statements in their script to have the privileges recorded. The privtype column indicates if the initial privilege was set by initdb or during a CREATE EXTENSION command.
Objects which have initial privileges set by initdb will have entries where privtype is 'i', while objects which have initial privileges set by CREATE EXTENSION will have entries where privtype is 'e'.

Table 53.28. pg_init_privs Columns








Column Type
Description






objoid oid (references any OID column)
The OID of the specific object




classoid oid (references pg_class.oid)
The OID of the system catalog the object is in




objsubid int4
For a table column, this is the column number (the objoid and classoid refer to the table itself). For all other object types, this column is zero.




privtype char
A code defining the type of initial privilege of this object; see text




initprivs aclitem[]
The initial access privileges; see Section 5.7 for details











Prev 
Up
 Next


53.27. pg_inherits 
Home
 53.29. pg_language





Submit correction

              If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
              your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
              please use
              this form
              to report a documentation issue.
              

 
















Privacy Policy |
        Code of Conduct |
        About PostgreSQL |
        Contact
Copyright © 1996-2023 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group








