


PostgreSQL: Documentation: 15: 30.2. Data Checksums
































Home
About
Download
Documentation
Community
Developers
Support
Donate
Your account

















9th February 2023: 
  PostgreSQL 15.2, 14.7, 13.10, 12.14, and 11.19 Released!












Documentation → PostgreSQL 15





                    Supported Versions:
                      
                        
                        
                          Current
                          (15)
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          14




                    Development Versions:
                    
                      
                      devel



















30.2. Data Checksums


Prev 
Up
Chapter 30. Reliability and the Write-Ahead Log
Home
 Next








30.2. Data Checksums





30.2.1. Off-line Enabling of Checksums


By default, data pages are not protected by checksums, but this can optionally be enabled for a cluster. When enabled, each data page includes a checksum that is updated when the page is written and verified each time the page is read. Only data pages are protected by checksums; internal data structures and temporary files are not.
Checksums are normally enabled when the cluster is initialized using initdb. They can also be enabled or disabled at a later time as an offline operation. Data checksums are enabled or disabled at the full cluster level, and cannot be specified individually for databases or tables.
The current state of checksums in the cluster can be verified by viewing the value of the read-only configuration variable data_checksums by issuing the command SHOW data_checksums.
When attempting to recover from page corruptions, it may be necessary to bypass the checksum protection. To do this, temporarily set the configuration parameter ignore_checksum_failure.




30.2.1. Off-line Enabling of Checksums



The pg_checksums application can be used to enable or disable data checksums, as well as verify checksums, on an offline cluster.






Prev 
Up
 Next


30.1. Reliability 
Home
 30.3. Write-Ahead Logging (WAL)





Submit correction

              If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
              your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
              please use
              this form
              to report a documentation issue.
              

 
















Privacy Policy |
        Code of Conduct |
        About PostgreSQL |
        Contact
Copyright © 1996-2023 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group








