


PostgreSQL: Documentation: 15: createuser
































Home
About
Download
Documentation
Community
Developers
Support
Donate
Your account

















9th February 2023: 
  PostgreSQL 15.2, 14.7, 13.10, 12.14, and 11.19 Released!












Documentation → PostgreSQL 15





                    Supported Versions:
                      
                        
                        
                          Current
                          (15)
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          14
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          13
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          12
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          11




                    Development Versions:
                    
                      
                      devel




                    Unsupported versions:
                    
                      
                      10
                    
                       / 
                      9.6
                    
                       / 
                      9.5
                    
                       / 
                      9.4
                    
                       / 
                      9.3
                    
                       / 
                      9.2
                    
                       / 
                      9.1
                    
                       / 
                      9.0
                    
                       / 
                      8.4
                    
                       / 
                      8.3
                    
                       / 
                      8.2
                    
                       / 
                      8.1
                    
                       / 
                      8.0
                    
                       / 
                      7.4
                    
                       / 
                      7.3
                    
                       / 
                      7.2
                    
                       / 
                      7.1



















createuser


Prev 
Up
PostgreSQL Client Applications
Home
 Next







createuser
createuser — define a new PostgreSQL user account


Synopsis

createuser [connection-option...] [option...] [username]



Description
createuser creates a new PostgreSQL user (or more precisely, a role). Only superusers and users with CREATEROLE privilege can create new users, so createuser must be invoked by someone who can connect as a superuser or a user with CREATEROLE privilege.
If you wish to create a role with the SUPERUSER, REPLICATION, or BYPASSRLS privilege, you must connect as a superuser, not merely with CREATEROLE privilege. Being a superuser implies the ability to bypass all access permission checks within the database, so superuser access should not be granted lightly. CREATEROLE also conveys very extensive privileges.
createuser is a wrapper around the SQL command CREATE ROLE. There is no effective difference between creating users via this utility and via other methods for accessing the server.


Options
createuser accepts the following command-line arguments:


username

Specifies the name of the PostgreSQL user to be created. This name must be different from all existing roles in this PostgreSQL installation.

-c number--connection-limit=number

Set a maximum number of connections for the new user. The default is to set no limit.

-d--createdb

The new user will be allowed to create databases.

-D--no-createdb

The new user will not be allowed to create databases. This is the default.

-e--echo

Echo the commands that createuser generates and sends to the server.

-E--encrypted

This option is obsolete but still accepted for backward compatibility.

-g role--role=role

Indicates role to which this role will be added immediately as a new member. Multiple roles to which this role will be added as a member can be specified by writing multiple -g switches.

-i--inherit

The new role will automatically inherit privileges of roles it is a member of. This is the default.

-I--no-inherit

The new role will not automatically inherit privileges of roles it is a member of.

--interactive

Prompt for the user name if none is specified on the command line, and also prompt for whichever of the options -d/-D, -r/-R, -s/-S is not specified on the command line. (This was the default behavior up to PostgreSQL 9.1.)

-l--login

The new user will be allowed to log in (that is, the user name can be used as the initial session user identifier). This is the default.

-L--no-login

The new user will not be allowed to log in. (A role without login privilege is still useful as a means of managing database permissions.)

-P--pwprompt

If given, createuser will issue a prompt for the password of the new user. This is not necessary if you do not plan on using password authentication.

-r--createrole

The new user will be allowed to create, alter, drop, comment on, change the security label for, and grant or revoke membership in other roles; that is, this user will have CREATEROLE privilege. See role creation for more details about what capabilities are conferred by this privilege.

-R--no-createrole

The new user will not be allowed to create new roles. This is the default.

-s--superuser

The new user will be a superuser.

-S--no-superuser

The new user will not be a superuser. This is the default.

-V--version

Print the createuser version and exit.

--replication

The new user will have the REPLICATION privilege, which is described more fully in the documentation for CREATE ROLE.

--no-replication

The new user will not have the REPLICATION privilege, which is described more fully in the documentation for CREATE ROLE.

-?--help

Show help about createuser command line arguments, and exit.



createuser also accepts the following command-line arguments for connection parameters:


-h host--host=host

Specifies the host name of the machine on which the server is running. If the value begins with a slash, it is used as the directory for the Unix domain socket.

-p port--port=port

Specifies the TCP port or local Unix domain socket file extension on which the server is listening for connections.

-U username--username=username

User name to connect as (not the user name to create).

-w--no-password

Never issue a password prompt. If the server requires password authentication and a password is not available by other means such as a .pgpass file, the connection attempt will fail. This option can be useful in batch jobs and scripts where no user is present to enter a password.

-W--password

Force createuser to prompt for a password (for connecting to the server, not for the password of the new user).
This option is never essential, since createuser will automatically prompt for a password if the server demands password authentication. However, createuser will waste a connection attempt finding out that the server wants a password. In some cases it is worth typing -W to avoid the extra connection attempt.





Environment


PGHOSTPGPORTPGUSER

Default connection parameters

PG_COLOR

Specifies whether to use color in diagnostic messages. Possible values are always, auto and never.



This utility, like most other PostgreSQL utilities, also uses the environment variables supported by libpq (see Section 34.15).


Diagnostics
In case of difficulty, see CREATE ROLE and psql for discussions of potential problems and error messages. The database server must be running at the targeted host. Also, any default connection settings and environment variables used by the libpq front-end library will apply.


Examples
To create a user joe on the default database server:

$ createuser joe

To create a user joe on the default database server with prompting for some additional attributes:

$ createuser --interactive joe
Shall the new role be a superuser? (y/n) n
Shall the new role be allowed to create databases? (y/n) n
Shall the new role be allowed to create more new roles? (y/n) n

To create the same user joe using the server on host eden, port 5000, with attributes explicitly specified, taking a look at the underlying command:

$ createuser -h eden -p 5000 -S -D -R -e joe
CREATE ROLE joe NOSUPERUSER NOCREATEDB NOCREATEROLE INHERIT LOGIN;

To create the user joe as a superuser, and assign a password immediately:

$ createuser -P -s -e joe
Enter password for new role: xyzzy
Enter it again: xyzzy
CREATE ROLE joe PASSWORD 'md5b5f5ba1a423792b526f799ae4eb3d59e' SUPERUSER CREATEDB CREATEROLE INHERIT LOGIN;

In the above example, the new password isn't actually echoed when typed, but we show what was typed for clarity. As you see, the password is encrypted before it is sent to the client.


See Alsodropuser, CREATE ROLE






Prev 
Up
 Next


createdb 
Home
 dropdb





Submit correction

              If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
              your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
              please use
              this form
              to report a documentation issue.
              

 
















Privacy Policy |
        Code of Conduct |
        About PostgreSQL |
        Contact
Copyright © 1996-2023 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group








