


PostgreSQL: Documentation: 15: 53.2. pg_aggregate
































Home
About
Download
Documentation
Community
Developers
Support
Donate
Your account

















9th February 2023: 
  PostgreSQL 15.2, 14.7, 13.10, 12.14, and 11.19 Released!












Documentation → PostgreSQL 15





                    Supported Versions:
                      
                        
                        
                          Current
                          (15)
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          14
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          13
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          12
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          11




                    Development Versions:
                    
                      
                      devel




                    Unsupported versions:
                    
                      
                      10
                    
                       / 
                      9.6
                    
                       / 
                      9.5
                    
                       / 
                      9.4
                    
                       / 
                      9.3
                    
                       / 
                      9.2
                    
                       / 
                      9.1
                    
                       / 
                      9.0
                    
                       / 
                      8.4
                    
                       / 
                      8.3
                    
                       / 
                      8.2
                    
                       / 
                      8.1
                    
                       / 
                      8.0
                    
                       / 
                      7.4
                    
                       / 
                      7.3
                    
                       / 
                      7.2
                    
                       / 
                      7.1



















53.2. pg_aggregate


Prev 
Up
Chapter 53. System Catalogs
Home
 Next








53.2. pg_aggregate



The catalog pg_aggregate stores information about aggregate functions. An aggregate function is a function that operates on a set of values (typically one column from each row that matches a query condition) and returns a single value computed from all these values. Typical aggregate functions are sum, count, and max. Each entry in pg_aggregate is an extension of an entry in pg_proc. The pg_proc entry carries the aggregate's name, input and output data types, and other information that is similar to ordinary functions.

Table 53.2. pg_aggregate Columns








Column Type
Description






aggfnoid regproc (references pg_proc.oid)
pg_proc OID of the aggregate function




aggkind char
Aggregate kind: n for “normal” aggregates, o for “ordered-set” aggregates, or h for “hypothetical-set” aggregates




aggnumdirectargs int2
Number of direct (non-aggregated) arguments of an ordered-set or hypothetical-set aggregate, counting a variadic array as one argument. If equal to pronargs, the aggregate must be variadic and the variadic array describes the aggregated arguments as well as the final direct arguments. Always zero for normal aggregates.




aggtransfn regproc (references pg_proc.oid)
Transition function




aggfinalfn regproc (references pg_proc.oid)
Final function (zero if none)




aggcombinefn regproc (references pg_proc.oid)
Combine function (zero if none)




aggserialfn regproc (references pg_proc.oid)
Serialization function (zero if none)




aggdeserialfn regproc (references pg_proc.oid)
Deserialization function (zero if none)




aggmtransfn regproc (references pg_proc.oid)
Forward transition function for moving-aggregate mode (zero if none)




aggminvtransfn regproc (references pg_proc.oid)
Inverse transition function for moving-aggregate mode (zero if none)




aggmfinalfn regproc (references pg_proc.oid)
Final function for moving-aggregate mode (zero if none)




aggfinalextra bool
True to pass extra dummy arguments to aggfinalfn




aggmfinalextra bool
True to pass extra dummy arguments to aggmfinalfn




aggfinalmodify char
Whether aggfinalfn modifies the transition state value: r if it is read-only, s if the aggtransfn cannot be applied after the aggfinalfn, or w if it writes on the value




aggmfinalmodify char
Like aggfinalmodify, but for the aggmfinalfn




aggsortop oid (references pg_operator.oid)
Associated sort operator (zero if none)




aggtranstype oid (references pg_type.oid)
Data type of the aggregate function's internal transition (state) data




aggtransspace int4
Approximate average size (in bytes) of the transition state data, or zero to use a default estimate




aggmtranstype oid (references pg_type.oid)
Data type of the aggregate function's internal transition (state) data for moving-aggregate mode (zero if none)




aggmtransspace int4
Approximate average size (in bytes) of the transition state data for moving-aggregate mode, or zero to use a default estimate




agginitval text
The initial value of the transition state. This is a text field containing the initial value in its external string representation. If this field is null, the transition state value starts out null.




aggminitval text
The initial value of the transition state for moving-aggregate mode. This is a text field containing the initial value in its external string representation. If this field is null, the transition state value starts out null.






New aggregate functions are registered with the CREATE AGGREGATE command. See Section 38.12 for more information about writing aggregate functions and the meaning of the transition functions, etc.





Prev 
Up
 Next


53.1. Overview 
Home
 53.3. pg_am





Submit correction

              If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
              your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
              please use
              this form
              to report a documentation issue.
              

 
















Privacy Policy |
        Code of Conduct |
        About PostgreSQL |
        Contact
Copyright © 1996-2023 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group








