


PostgreSQL: Documentation: 15: 54.7. pg_file_settings
































Home
About
Download
Documentation
Community
Developers
Support
Donate
Your account

















9th February 2023: 
  PostgreSQL 15.2, 14.7, 13.10, 12.14, and 11.19 Released!












Documentation → PostgreSQL 15





                    Supported Versions:
                      
                        
                        
                          Current
                          (15)
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          14
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          13
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          12
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          11




                    Development Versions:
                    
                      
                      devel




                    Unsupported versions:
                    
                      
                      10
                    
                       / 
                      9.6
                    
                       / 
                      9.5



















54.7. pg_file_settings


Prev 
Up
Chapter 54. System Views
Home
 Next








54.7. pg_file_settings



The view pg_file_settings provides a summary of the contents of the server's configuration file(s). A row appears in this view for each “name = value” entry appearing in the files, with annotations indicating whether the value could be applied successfully. Additional row(s) may appear for problems not linked to a “name = value” entry, such as syntax errors in the files.
This view is helpful for checking whether planned changes in the configuration files will work, or for diagnosing a previous failure. Note that this view reports on the current contents of the files, not on what was last applied by the server. (The pg_settings view is usually sufficient to determine that.)
By default, the pg_file_settings view can be read only by superusers.

Table 54.7. pg_file_settings Columns








Column Type
Description






sourcefile text
Full path name of the configuration file




sourceline int4
Line number within the configuration file where the entry appears




seqno int4
Order in which the entries are processed (1..n)




name text
Configuration parameter name




setting text
Value to be assigned to the parameter




applied bool
True if the value can be applied successfully




error text
If not null, an error message indicating why this entry could not be applied






If the configuration file contains syntax errors or invalid parameter names, the server will not attempt to apply any settings from it, and therefore all the applied fields will read as false. In such a case there will be one or more rows with non-null error fields indicating the problem(s). Otherwise, individual settings will be applied if possible. If an individual setting cannot be applied (e.g., invalid value, or the setting cannot be changed after server start) it will have an appropriate message in the error field. Another way that an entry might have applied = false is that it is overridden by a later entry for the same parameter name; this case is not considered an error so nothing appears in the error field.
See Section 20.1 for more information about the various ways to change run-time parameters.





Prev 
Up
 Next


54.6. pg_cursors 
Home
 54.8. pg_group





Submit correction

              If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
              your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
              please use
              this form
              to report a documentation issue.
              

 
















Privacy Policy |
        Code of Conduct |
        About PostgreSQL |
        Contact
Copyright © 1996-2023 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group








