


PostgreSQL: Documentation: 15: 51.2. Archive Module Callbacks
































Home
About
Download
Documentation
Community
Developers
Support
Donate
Your account

















9th February 2023: 
  PostgreSQL 15.2, 14.7, 13.10, 12.14, and 11.19 Released!












Documentation → PostgreSQL 15





                    Supported Versions:
                      
                        
                        
                          Current
                          (15)
                        
                      
                  



                    Development Versions:
                    
                      
                      devel



















51.2. Archive Module Callbacks


Prev 
Up
Chapter 51. Archive Modules
Home
 Next








51.2. Archive Module Callbacks





51.2.1. Check Callback
51.2.2. Archive Callback
51.2.3. Shutdown Callback


The archive callbacks define the actual archiving behavior of the module. The server will call them as required to process each individual WAL file.




51.2.1. Check Callback



The check_configured_cb callback is called to determine whether the module is fully configured and ready to accept WAL files (e.g., its configuration parameters are set to valid values). If no check_configured_cb is defined, the server always assumes the module is configured.

typedef bool (*ArchiveCheckConfiguredCB) (void);

If true is returned, the server will proceed with archiving the file by calling the archive_file_cb callback. If false is returned, archiving will not proceed, and the archiver will emit the following message to the server log:

WARNING:  archive_mode enabled, yet archiving is not configured

In the latter case, the server will periodically call this function, and archiving will proceed only when it returns true.





51.2.2. Archive Callback



The archive_file_cb callback is called to archive a single WAL file.

typedef bool (*ArchiveFileCB) (const char *file, const char *path);

If true is returned, the server proceeds as if the file was successfully archived, which may include recycling or removing the original WAL file. If false is returned, the server will keep the original WAL file and retry archiving later. file will contain just the file name of the WAL file to archive, while path contains the full path of the WAL file (including the file name).





51.2.3. Shutdown Callback



The shutdown_cb callback is called when the archiver process exits (e.g., after an error) or the value of archive_library changes. If no shutdown_cb is defined, no special action is taken in these situations.

typedef void (*ArchiveShutdownCB) (void);







Prev 
Up
 Next


51.1. Initialization Functions 
Home
 Part VI. Reference





Submit correction

              If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
              your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
              please use
              this form
              to report a documentation issue.
              

 
















Privacy Policy |
        Code of Conduct |
        About PostgreSQL |
        Contact
Copyright © 1996-2023 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group








