


PostgreSQL: Documentation: 15: 73.7. Heap-Only Tuples (HOT)
































Home
About
Download
Documentation
Community
Developers
Support
Donate
Your account

















9th February 2023: 
  PostgreSQL 15.2, 14.7, 13.10, 12.14, and 11.19 Released!












Documentation → PostgreSQL 15





                    Supported Versions:
                      
                        
                        
                          Current
                          (15)
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          14
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          13
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          12
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          11




                    Development Versions:
                    
                      
                      devel



















73.7. Heap-Only Tuples (HOT)


Prev 
Up
Chapter 73. Database Physical Storage
Home
 Next








73.7. Heap-Only Tuples (HOT)



To allow for high concurrency, PostgreSQL uses multiversion concurrency control (MVCC) to store rows. However, MVCC has some downsides for update queries. Specifically, updates require new versions of rows to be added to tables. This can also require new index entries for each updated row, and removal of old versions of rows and their index entries can be expensive.
To help reduce the overhead of updates, PostgreSQL has an optimization called heap-only tuples (HOT). This optimization is possible when:



The update does not modify any columns referenced by the table's indexes, including expression and partial indexes.


There is sufficient free space on the page containing the old row for the updated row.



In such cases, heap-only tuples provide two optimizations:



New index entries are not needed to represent updated rows.


Old versions of updated rows can be completely removed during normal operation, including SELECTs, instead of requiring periodic vacuum operations. (This is possible because indexes do not reference their page item identifiers.)



In summary, heap-only tuple updates can only be created if columns used by indexes are not updated. You can increase the likelihood of sufficient page space for HOT updates by decreasing a table's fillfactor. If you don't, HOT updates will still happen because new rows will naturally migrate to new pages and existing pages with sufficient free space for new row versions. The system view pg_stat_all_tables allows monitoring of the occurrence of HOT and non-HOT updates.





Prev 
Up
 Next


73.6. Database Page Layout 
Home
 Chapter 74. System Catalog Declarations and Initial Contents





Submit correction

              If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
              your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
              please use
              this form
              to report a documentation issue.
              

 
















Privacy Policy |
        Code of Conduct |
        About PostgreSQL |
        Contact
Copyright © 1996-2023 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group








