


PostgreSQL: Documentation: 15: 44.11. PL/Tcl Configuration
































Home
About
Download
Documentation
Community
Developers
Support
Donate
Your account

















9th February 2023: 
  PostgreSQL 15.2, 14.7, 13.10, 12.14, and 11.19 Released!












Documentation → PostgreSQL 15





                    Supported Versions:
                      
                        
                        
                          Current
                          (15)
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          14
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          13
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          12
                        
                      
                         / 
                        
                          11




                    Development Versions:
                    
                      
                      devel




                    Unsupported versions:
                    
                      
                      10



















44.11. PL/Tcl Configuration


Prev 
Up
Chapter 44. PL/Tcl — Tcl Procedural Language
Home
 Next








44.11. PL/Tcl Configuration



This section lists configuration parameters that affect PL/Tcl.


pltcl.start_proc (string) 

This parameter, if set to a nonempty string, specifies the name (possibly schema-qualified) of a parameterless PL/Tcl function that is to be executed whenever a new Tcl interpreter is created for PL/Tcl. Such a function can perform per-session initialization, such as loading additional Tcl code. A new Tcl interpreter is created when a PL/Tcl function is first executed in a database session, or when an additional interpreter has to be created because a PL/Tcl function is called by a new SQL role.
The referenced function must be written in the pltcl language, and must not be marked SECURITY DEFINER. (These restrictions ensure that it runs in the interpreter it's supposed to initialize.) The current user must have permission to call it, too.
If the function fails with an error it will abort the function call that caused the new interpreter to be created and propagate out to the calling query, causing the current transaction or subtransaction to be aborted. Any actions already done within Tcl won't be undone; however, that interpreter won't be used again. If the language is used again the initialization will be attempted again within a fresh Tcl interpreter.
Only superusers can change this setting. Although this setting can be changed within a session, such changes will not affect Tcl interpreters that have already been created.

pltclu.start_proc (string) 

This parameter is exactly like pltcl.start_proc, except that it applies to PL/TclU. The referenced function must be written in the pltclu language.








Prev 
Up
 Next


44.10. Transaction Management 
Home
 44.12. Tcl Procedure Names





Submit correction

              If you see anything in the documentation that is not correct, does not match
              your experience with the particular feature or requires further clarification,
              please use
              this form
              to report a documentation issue.
              

 
















Privacy Policy |
        Code of Conduct |
        About PostgreSQL |
        Contact
Copyright © 1996-2023 The PostgreSQL Global Development Group








